Here let us learn how to declare and initialize and how to use an arrray.
So let us learn some of the basics, if you want an array of type integer let us call it a size 5.
So i will be getting five integers starting from index zero to 4.
It is not initialized.
I have not assign any values.
If you want to display this I'll be actually getting garbage values.
Let's try this and see how displays for going to all the elements of an array ,one by one I should
have a counter So there i will be used as a counter.
I assign zero and i is less than 5 because they need to start from zero to 4 then I plus plus And
here I will say cout A of I.
And also I will write.
endl after printing this one.
Let us run this and see what happens.
See this is initialize as
zeroes , few values are zero four values are 0, 1 one of the value is, and one of the value is a smaller negative number.
So all these are garbage.
Only because the array is not initialized How we can initialized an array, one method is I can initialize an array by assigning
some values like 3 4 10 and 12 and  5.
Let us run this and see
now I got the same values 3 4 10 12 and 5.
So this is the way an array can be initialized i will remove these values
The size of the array is 5 but I'm giving only two values.
Let us see what happens.
See 3 and 4 are there and the rest of the values are By default zero.
See what happens when you are initializing in the Arctic.
You need not initialize all the locations are all and do yourself and you can initialize feel so the
rest of them will be automatically initialized to zero.
If I say just 0 then what happens.
All of them will get zero because the first one is zero and remaining all of them automatically become
zero.
Yes all these are zero.
If i give some values here, two four six eight ten.
I have given five values here.
Can they exceed the number of values.
Let us see what happens.
I haven't given one extra value so it's compile time error.
So it gives an error that access elements in an array initializer you cannot have a number of elements
more than the size of an array.
So I should give it a size 6.
Now let me run this way and see for 6 elements
yeah I'm getting all the elements.
If I don't give the size the size here, will it allow, Yes this is another method
You don't have to give the size of an array.
Just you can give the set of values and the size of a not even be exactly equal to the number of elements
that you are mentioning in the list.
Let us run this and see.
Yes it's working as there was no error.
So the size of an array is 6.  now  next
I have to show you one more type of for loop that is called for each loop that is mostly useful for a
array or collection type of data structure.
So here int X I take one variable x and that is for a and cout x and also endl. see
This is declaring a variable x for the elements in a.
So when we say for this will be iterating through this array
For all the elements one by one and each element will be taken in X every time, so first two will become
x then four will become X then 6 will become X and goes on.
So in this way it will iterate through the entire array.
Whatever the size may be so we don't have to know the size of an array.
This will take care, for each loop it will take care.
So let us see it will display all elements yes.
This is working at the same as that.
Now here I will take the size of an array as a 6.
And I will give only three elements.
Let's see what happens when to go to all six elements or just three elements.
It's going to all six elements, so it means this for loop will work according to the size of the array
size of a not based on the number of elements stored in a array.
We have not store the remaining three elements which are initialized to zero
but it is displaying the complete array.
So these are very useful for loop. this was  introduced in C++ 11 version 11
so this for loop is a part of modern C++.
This was not there in older version of C++.
This was introduced in C++ 11, and this is a very useful loop for accessing arrays.
If I have a flow type array, then I can initialize a float type array by giving some Float numbers 2.5 F
and comma 5.6 f , 9, 8, 7.
So some of them I have given float  literal and some are integer literal,  so I can use any of these.
Now here when I'm taking integer for A let us see weather it works or not but this x should be of typpe
float
Because these are float values
yes it's working and it is truncating the decimal part and taking only integer parts of these numbers.
Now here actually I should write float then it looks perfectly
yeah I'm getting all the values as it is.
So I got the correct values.
Instead of giving float.
Even I can auto
So I don't have to know what is the type of an array also just auto x.
I can give the array name
So it is very powerful and very easy for the programmer.
He don't even have to know what type of array he has declared.
He don't have to go up in the program and check the type of an array,
for now x will be of type float.
So you can see that I'm getting the values to point five and 5.6 and so on.
So this is of type float
if I have to declare an array of type characters then it must be initialized with the character literals
so I can do.
I can store a and for B I will take 66 and for C I'll take C and for D
I will take it as 68.
So let us see what happens when I print this using for each loop.
Now here X is auto.
So it will automatically take it as a character type.
A B C D.
I have given ASCII codes of letter B and letter D.
I'm showing it as characters so it is displaying them as characters.
If I take them as instead of auto I will  write it as int and   let us see what happens.
what values I will get here.
I'm getting 65 66 67 and 68.
So it means these are the ASCII codes.
I have converted them into integer.
So these elements are taken as integer type and displayed here.
So that's it about array.
So you practice this thing.
Just go through it and test it by yourself.